Terms and Conditions for http://git.idk.i2p
===========================================

This is a work-in-progress document. It is not yet finalized. It will be soon.

Privacy Policy
--------------

git.idk.i2p and it's administrators will never share any information with any
third parties, except as required by law in the jurisdictions where it is
hosted(USA and Canada). Logs are kept for 24 hours only, and are never shared
with a third party. Account information given by the user may be visible on a
public profile, it is the user's responsibility to audit the information that
they share publicly.

Acceptance
----------

Accounts are open to the public. They approved by an admin on a case-by-case
basis. While real names and real e-mail addresses are not required, if we
suspect your account of being malicious in any way, it may never be approved,
a right which we reserve in perpetuity. Once you account is approved, the
following conditions apply.

If you cannot abide the terms and conditions below, or simply don't trust me to
host your repositories responsibly, please [consider hosting your own Gitlab
service](https://geti2p.net/en/blog/post/2020/03/16/gitlab-over-i2p).

Abuse
-----

Attempting to use git.idk.i2p to spam, communicate with or distribute malware,
or publicize and distribute materials that are illegal in the US or Canada are
strictly prohibited. Accounts found to be abusing the service to do this will
be deactivated permanently.

Files that may infringe the copyright of a specific organization will be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis and files or repositories will be removed if
the violation actually occurred.

Attempting to attack git.idk.i2p, including but not limited to by resource
wasting/exhaustion, user impersonation, defamatory tactics against the project
or other developers, attempts to exploit underlying git or SSH services, or
attempts to de-anonymize the service are prohibited. Accounts found to be
mounting attacks will be deactivated.

git.idk.i2p services are provided free of charge by idk for use by the I2P
project and by the I2P community.